Why AI?
- Well, we've all heard about applications of artificial intelligence that are popping up around us.

Self-driving cars, medicine, heavy machinery, customer service.

The list just keeps going on and on and on.

But why right now?

Why not ten years ago, not ten years later?

Well, the answer is hidden in this curve, which is called Moore's Law.



It was originally identified in 1965 by Gordon Moore.

And what it says is that the power of the average computer, like in very simple terms, the power of

the average computer that you can buy for 1000 will double every 18 to 24 months.

And that's been, as you can see, that's the law has held constant through good times and bad war and

peace and the recession, depressions.

Nothing stops this curve.

And we've already surpassed the brain of an insect for an average computer.

It's going to buy for 1000 bucks.

We're sitting at about the speed, the processing power of the brain of a rat by 2025 will be at the

brain of a human.

As you can see, it's exponentially growing.

And so this is a great time to be an artificial intelligence is just going to be doubling.

The power is going to be doubling every time.

All right.

3 minutes.

So what some my favorite examples are related to games like chess and go so in 1997, DeepMind was the

first computer to beat Garry Kasparov in chess.

It was a huge thing.

It was like one of the most broadcasted chess games on the planet ever.

And at the same time.

And so that was like an consider an impossible feat.

Right now on any phone you can install app with chess, which no human player will ever beat because

computers are that good.

Now you just cannot beat a computer in chess if you put on the hardest setting.

And then just recently in March 2016, a computer won against the 18 World Times champion, Asian world

champion of the game of Go Lee Sedol, again considered an impossible feat.

Even at the start of the match, it was considered to have to be impossible, that it's only going to

happen ten years from then.

But it happened.

And by the way, if you'd like find out a bit more about the game of goal.

It's very, very exciting, very interesting.

It's got 40 million players, 3000 year old game, very popular in China, Japan and Korea.

And it's much more complex than chess.

So just there's many more possible combinations.

So again, something that was considered impossible is happening and it's happening now and much earlier

than it's time.

So how are we going for time?

One minute, 52 seconds.

So that's what you'll see from this course.

You'll see that we're using games to train.

AI Why are we doing that?

Because games are a confined environment where we can if we can beat a game using an artificial intelligence,

then we can use the same principles to apply to business.

And that's the exact same thing that the team at Google, DeepMind, who created AlphaGo, who won against

these Sedol, that's exactly what they did.

They applied artificial intelligence to a Google's warehouse to control the air cooling.

And what they found is this is the electricity bill, electricity consumption.

You can see it's going like this.

As soon as they switch on, the AI goes down and then they switch it back off, goes up.

They were able to save 40% on their electricity bill.

And I have one minute left, 40% so you can find the full article on the DeepMind blog.

That is insane.

Imagine that for a company of Google's scale, which has millions and millions of servers.

So there you go.

That's that's your connection between applying artificial intelligence and games and applying it to

business.

Very, very closely related.

And that's what you will be able to do after this course.

And finally, one of my favorite blogs, Wade, about why dotcom check it out.

Amazing blog by Tim Urban.

This is how he describes the situation we're in.

This is us and technological progress.

We're sitting here.

This is what it looks like.

Looks very, very linear.

But because it's an exponential boom, this is what's going to happen in the next years.

And there's very strong evidence from the things that we're seeing to suggest that we're sitting right

over here on the kink of the curve.

And that, my friends, in short, is why it's so exciting to be alive right now, why it's so exciting

to be and get into and be in the space of artificial intelligence because the power you'll have, the

applications that you will be able to create or the ways you'll be able to apply it is going to be intense

and insane.
